ISCSI

   iscsi allows one to share and mount block devices using the scsi protocol
   over a network. Fedora currently connects to a netapp that has an iscsi
   export.

   Contents

     * 1 Contact Information
     * 2 Typical uses
     * 3 iscsi basics
     ** 3.1 Terms
     ** 3.2 iscsi's basic login / logout procedure is
     * 4 Loggin in
     * 5 Logging out
     * 6 Important note about creating new logical volumes

Contact Information

   Owner: Fedora Infrastructure Team
   Contact: #fedora-admin, sysadmin-main
   Location: Phoenix
   Servers: xen[1-15]
   Purpose: Provides iscsi connectivity to our netapp.

Typical uses

   The best uses for Fedora are for servers that are not part of a farm or
   live replicated. For example, we wouldn't put app1 on the iscsi share
   because we don't gain anything from it. Shutting down app1 to move it
   isn't an issue because app1 is part of our application server farm.

   noc1, however, is not replicated. It's a stand alone box that, at best,
   would have a non-live failover. By placing this host on an iscsi share, we
   can make it more highly available as it allows us to move that box around
   our virtualization infrastructure without rebooting it or even taking it
   down.

iscsi basics

  Terms

     * initiator means client
     * target means server
     * swab means mop
     * deck means floor

  iscsi's basic login / logout procedure is

    1. Notify your client that a new target is available (similar to editing
       /etc/fstab for a new nfs mount)
    2. Login to the iscsi target (similar to running "mount /my/nfs"
    3. Logout from the iscsi target (similar to running "umount /my/nfs"
    4. Delete the target from the client (similar to removing the nfs mount
       from /etc/fstab)

Loggin in

   Most mounts are covered by puppet so this should be automatic. In the
   event that something goes wrong though, the best way to fix this is:

	# Notify the client of the target
	iscsiadm --mode node --targetname iqn.1992-08.com.netapp:sn.118047036 --portal 10.5.88.21:3260 -o new

	# Log in to the new target
	iscsiadm --mode node --targetname iqn.1992-08.com.netapp:sn.118047036 --portal 10.5.88.21:3260 --login

	# Scan and activate lvm
	pvscan
	vgscan
	vgchange -ay xenGuests

   Once this is done, one should be able to run "lvs" to see the logical
   volumes

Logging out

   Logging out isn't normally needed, for example rebooting a machine
   automatically logs the initiator out. Should a problem arise though here
   are the steps:

	# Disable the logical volume:
	vgchange -an xenGuests

	# log out
	iscsiadm --mode node --targetname iqn.1992-08.com.netapp:sn.118047036 --portal 10.5.88.21:3260 --logout

"Cannot deactivate volume group"

   If the vgchange command fails with an error about not being able to
   deactivate the volume group, this means that one of the logical volumes is
   still in use. By running "lvs" you can get a list of volume groups. Look
   in the Attr column. There are 6 attrs listed. The 5th column usually has a
   '-' or an 'a'. 'a' means its active, - means it is not. To the right of
   that (the last column) you will see an '-' or an 'o'. If you see an 'o'
   that means that logical volume is still mounted and in use.

Important note about creating new logical volumes

   At present we do not have logical volume locking on the xen servers. This
   is dangerous and being worked on. Basically when you create a new volume
   on a host, you need to run:

	pvscan
	vgscan
	lvscan

   on the other virtualization servers.
