Netapp Infrastructure SOP

   Provides primary mirrors and additional storage in PHX2

   Contents

     * 1 Contact Information
     * 2 Description
     * 3 Public Mirrors

          * 3.1 Snapshots

     * 4 PHX NFS Storage

          * 4.1 Access
          * 4.2 Snapshots

     * 5 iscsi

          * 5.1 Updating LVM
          * 5.2 Mounting ISCSI

Contact Information

   Owner: Fedora Infrastructure Team

   Contact: #fedora-admin, sysadmin-main, releng

   Location: Phoenix, Tampa Bay, Raleigh

   Servers: puppet01, virt servers, application servers, builders, releng
   boxes

   Purpose: Provides primary mirrors and additional storage in PHX2

Description

   At present we have three netapps in our infrastructure. One in TPA, RDU
   and PHX. For purposes of visualization its easiest to think of us as
   having 4 netapps, 1 TPA, 1 RDU and 1 PHX for public mirrors. And an
   additional 1 in PHX used for additional storage not related to the public
   mirrors.

Public Mirrors

   The netapps are our primary public mirrors. The canonical location for the
   mirrors is currently in PHX. From there it gets synced to RDU and TPA.

  Snapshots

   Snapshots on the PHX netapp are taken hourly. Unfortunately the way it is
   setup only Red Hat employees can access this mirror (this is scheduled to
   change when PHX becomes the canonical location but that will take time to
   setup and deploy). The snapshots are available, for example, on wallace
   in:

 /var/ftp/download.fedora.redhat.com/.snapshot/hourly.0

PHX NFS Storage

   There is a great deal of storage in PHX over NFS from the netapp there.
   This storage includes the public mirror. The majority of this storage is
   koji however there are a few gig worth of storage that goes to wiki
   attachments and other storage needs we have in PHX.

   You can access all of the nfs share shares at:

 puppet01:/mnt/fedora

 or

 ntap-fedora-a.storage.phx2.redhat.com:/vol/fedora/

  Access

   The netapp is provided by RHIS and as a result they also control access.
   Access is controlled by IP mostly and some machines have root squashed.
   Worst case scenario if puppet01 is not accessible, just bring another box
   up under its IP address and use that for an emergency.

  Snapshots

   There are hourly and nightly snapshots on the netapp. They are available
   in:

 puppet01:/mnt/fedora/.snapshot

iscsi

   We have iscsi deployed in a number of locations in our infrastructure for
   xen machines. To get a list of what xen machines are deployed with iscsi,
   just run lvs:

 lvs /dev/xenGuests

   Live migration is possible though not fully supported at this time. Please
   shut a xen machine down and bring it up on another host. Memory is the
   main issue here.

  Updating LVM

   iscsi is mounted all over the place and if one xen machine creates a
   logical volume the other xen machines will have to pick up those changes.
   To do this run:

 pvscan
 vgscan
 lvscan
 vgchange -a y

  Mounting ISCSI

   On reboots sometimes the iscsi share is not remounted. This should be
   automated in the future but for now run:

 iscsiadm -m discovery -tst -p ntap-fedora-b.storage.phx2.redhat.com:3260
 sleep 1
 iscsiadm -m node -T iqn.1992-08.com.netapp:sn.118047036 -p 10.5.88.21:3260 -l
 sleep 1
 pvscan
 vgscan
 lvscan
 vgchange -a y

