Orientation Infrastructure SOP

   Basic orientation and introduction to the sysadmin group. Welcome aboard!

   Contents

     * 1 Contact Information
     * 2 Description
     * 3 Welcome to the team

          * 3.1 Time commitment
          * 3.2 Prove Yourself

     * 4 Doing Work

          * 4.1 Ansible

     * 5 Our Setup
     * 6 Our Rules

Contact Information

   Owner: Fedora Infrastructure Team

   Contact: #fedora-admin, sysadmin-main

   Purpose: Provide basic orientation and introduction to the sysadmin group

Description

   Fedora's Infrastructure team is charged with keeping all the lights on,
   improving pain points, expanding services, designing new services and
   partnering with other teams to help with their needs. The team is highly
   dynamic and primarily based in the US. This is only significant in that
   most of us work during the day in US time. We do have team members all
   over the globe though and generally have decent coverage. If you happen to
   be one of those who is not in a traditional US time zone you are
   encouraged to be around, especially in #fedora-admin during those times
   when we have less coverage. Even if it is just to say "I can't help with
   that but $ADMIN will be and he should be here in about 3 hours".

   The team itself is generally friendly and honest. Don't be afraid to
   disagree with someone, even if you're new and they're an old timer. Just
   make sure you ask yourself what is important to you and make sure to
   provide data, we like that. We generally communicate on irc.freenode.net
   in #fedora-admin. We have our weekly meetings on IRC and its the quickest
   way to get in touch with everyone. Secondary to that we use the mailing
   list. After that its our ticketing system and talk.fedoraproject.org.

Welcome to the team

  Time commitment

   Often times this is the biggest reason for turnover in our group. Some
   groups like sysadmin-web and certainly sysadmin-main require a huge time
   commitment. Don't be surprised if you see people working between 10-30
   hours a week on various tasks and that's the volunteers. Your time
   commitment is something personal to each individual and its something that
   you should take some serious thought about. In general it's almost
   impossible to be a regular part of the team without at least 5-10 hours a
   week dedicated to the Infrastructure team.

   Also note, if you are going to be away, let us know. As a volunteer we
   can't possibly ask you to always be around all the time. Even if you're in
   the middle of a project and have to stop, let us know. Nothing is worse
   then thinking someone is working on something or will be around and
   they're just not. Really, we all understand, got a test coming up? Busier
   at work then normal? Going on a vacation? It doesn't matter, just let us
   know when you're going to be gone and what you're working on so it doesn't
   get forgotten.

   Additionally don't forget that its worth it to discuss with your employer
   about giving time during work. They may be all for it.

  Prove Yourself

   This is one of the most difficult aspects of getting involved with our
   team. We can't just give access to everyone who asks for it and often
   actually doing work without access is difficult. Some of the best things
   you can do are:

     * Keep bugging people for work. It shows you're committed.
     * Go through bugs, look at stale bugs and close bugs that have been
       fixed
     * Try to duplicate bugs on your workstation and fix them there

   Above all stick with it. Part of proving yourself is also to show the time
   commitment it actually does take.

Doing Work

   Once you've been sponsored for a team its generally your job to find what
   work needs to be done in the ticketing system. Be proactive about this.
   The tickets can be found at:

   https://fedorahosted.org/fedora-infrastructure/report/1

   When you find a ticket that interests you contact your sponsor or the
   ticket owner and offer help. While you're getting used to the way things
   work, don't be offput by someone saying no or you can't work on that. It
   happens, sometimes its a security thing, sometimes its a "I'm half way
   through it and I'm not happy with where it is thing." Just move on to the
   next ticket and go from there.

   Also don't be surprised if some of the work involved includes testing on
   your own workstation. Just setup a virtual environment and get to work!
   There's a lot of work that can be done to prove yourself that involves no
   access at all. Doing this kind of work is a sure fire way to get in to
   more groups and get more involved. Don't be afraid to take on tasks you
   don't already know how to do. But don't take on something you know you
   won't be able to do. Ask for help when you need it and keep in contact
   with your sponsor so you know

  Ansible

   Most of things we do gets done in Ansible. Older configuration is still
   managed by puppet, but it is slowly being migrated to Ansible. We have a
   separate SOP for Ansible and puppet at, respectively, ansible.txt and
   puppet.txt. It is important that you not make changes directly on
   servers. This is for many reasons but just always make changes in
   Ansible or puppet. If you want to get more familiar with Ansible, set it
   up yourself and give it a try. The docs are available at
   http://docs.ansible.com/

Our Setup

   Most of our work is done via bastion.fedoraproject.org. That host has
   access to our other hosts, many of which are all over the globe. We have a
   vpn solution setup so that knowing where the servers physically are is
   only important when troubleshooting things. When you first get granted
   access to one of the sysadmin-* groups, the first place you should turn is
   bastion.fedoraproject.org then from there ssh to lockbox01.

   We also have an architecture repo available in our git repo. To get a copy
   of this repo just:

 yum install git
 git clone git://git.fedorahosted.org/fedora-infrastructure.git/

   This will allow you to look through (and help fix) some of our scripts as
   well as have access to our architectural documentation. Become familiar
   with those docs if you're curious. There's always room to do better
   documentation so if you're interested just ping your sponsor and ask about
   it.

Our Rules

   The Fedora Infrastructure Team does have some rules. First is the security
   policy. Please ensure you are compliant with:

   http://infrastructure.fedoraproject.org/csi/security-policy/

   before logging in to any of our servers. Many of those items rely on the
   honor system.

   Additionally note that any of the software we deploy must be available in
   Fedora. There are some rare exceptions to this (particularly as it relates
   to specific applications to Fedora). But each exception is taken on a case
   by case basis.

