Outage Infrastructure SOP

   What to do when there's an outage or when you're planning to take an
   outage.

   Contents

     * 1 Contact Information
     * 2 Users (No Access)
     * 3 Planned Outage

          * 3.1 Contacts

     *4 Unplanned Outage

          * 4.1 Check first
          * 4.2 Reporting or participating in an outage

     * 5 Infrastructure Members (Admin Access)

          * 5.1 Planned Outage

               * 5.1.1 Planning
               * 5.1.2 Preparations
               * 5.1.3 Outage
               * 5.1.4 Post outage cleanup

          * 5.2 Unplanned Outage

               * 5.2.1 Determine Severity
               * 5.2.2 First Steps
               * 5.2.3 Fix it
               * 5.2.4 Escalate
               * 5.2.5 The Aftermath

Contact Information

   Owner: Fedora Infrastructure Team

   Contact: #fedora-admin, sysadmin-main group

   Location: Anywhere

   Servers: Any

   Purpose: This SOP is generic for any outage

   Emergency: https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pager

Users (No Access)

   Don't have shell access? Doesn't matter. Stop by and stay in #fedora-admin
   if you have any expertise in what is going on, please assist. Random users
   have helped the team out countless numbers of times. Any time the team
   doesn't have to go to the docs to look up an answer is a time they can be
   spending fixing what's busted.

Planned Outage

   If a planned outage comes at a terrible time, just let someone know. The
   Infrastructure Team does its best to keep outages out of the way but if
   there's a mass rebuild going on that we don't know about and we schedule a
   koji outage, let someone know.

  Contacts

   Pretty much all coordination occurs in #fedora-admin on irc.freenode.net.
   Stop by there to watch more about what's going on. Just stay on topic.

Unplanned Outage

  Check first

   Think something is busted? Please check with others to see if they are
   also having issues. This could even include checking on another computer.
   When reporting an outage remember that the admins will typically drop
   everything they are doing to check what the problem is. They won't be
   happy to find out your cert has expired or you're using the wrong
   username.

  Reporting or participating in an outage

   If you think you've found an outage, get as much information as you can
   about it at a glance. Copy any errors you get to http://pastebin.ca/.
   Use the following guidelines:

   Don't be general.

     * Stop "The wiki is acting slow"
     * "Whenever I try to save http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Infrastructure, I get a proxy error
       after 60 seconds"

   Don't report an outage that's already been reported.

     * Stop "/join #fedora-admin; Is the build system broken?"
     * "/join #fedora-admin; wait a minute or two; I                                                       noticed I can't submit builds, here's the error I get:"

   Don't suggest drastic or needless changes during an outage (send it to the
   list)

     * "Why don't you just use lighttpd?"
     * "You could try limiting MaxRequestsPerChild in
       Apache"

   Don't get off topic or be too chatty

     * Stop "Transformers was awesome, but yeah, I
       think you guys know what to do next"
    

   Do research the technologies we're using and answer questions that may
   come up.

     * Stop "Can't you just fix it?"
     * "Hey guys, I think this is what you're looking for:
       http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_mime.html#addencoding"

   Idea
   If no one can be contacted after 10 minutes or so please see the section
   below called Determine Severity to determine whether or not someone
   should get paged.

                     Infrastructure Members (Admin Access)

   The Infrastructure Members section is specifically written for members
   with access to the servers. This could be admin access to a box or even a
   specific web application. Basically anyone with access to fix the problem.

Planned Outage

   Any outage that is intentionally caused by a team member is a planned
   outage. Even if it has to happen in the next 5 minutes.

  Planning

   All major planned outages should occur with at least 1 week notice. This
   is not always possible, use best judgment. Please use our standard outage
   template at: Infrastructure/OutageTemplate Make sure to have another
   person review your template/announcement to check times and services
   affected. Make sure to send the announcement to the lists that are
   affected by the outage: announce, devel-announce, etc.

   Always create a ticket in the ticketing system: Infrastructure/Tickets
   Send an email to the fedora-infrastructure-list with more details if
   warranted.

   Remember to follow an existing SOP as much as possible. If anything is
   missing from the SOP please add it.

  Preparations

   Remember to schedule an outage in nagios. This is important not just so
   notifications don't get sent but also important for trending and
   reporting. https://admin.fedoraproject.org/nagios/

  Outage

   Report all information in #fedora-admin. Coordination is extremely
   important, it's rare for our group to meet in person and IRC is our only
   real-time communication device. If a web site is out please put up some
   sort of outage page in its place.

  Post outage cleanup

   Once the outage is over ensure that all services are up and running.
   Ensure all nagios services are back to green. Notify everyone in
   #fedora-admin to scan our services for issues. If the outage included a
   new feature or major change for a group, please notify that group that the
   change is ready. Make sure to close the ticket for the outage when it's
   over.

   Idea
   Additionally update any SOP's that may have changed in the course of the
   outage

Unplanned Outage

   Unplanned outages happen, stay cool. As a team member never be afraid to
   do something because you think you'll get in trouble over it. Be smart,
   don't be reckless, and never say "I shouldn't do this". If an unorthodox
   method or drastic change will fix the problem, do it, document it, and let
   the team know. Messes can always be cleaned up after the outage.

  Determine Severity

   Some outages require immediate fixing, some don't. A page should never go
   out because someone can't sign the cla. Most of our admins are in US time,
   use your best judgment. If it's bad enough to warrant an emergency page,
   page one of the admins at: https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pager

   Use the following as loose guidelines, just use your best judgment. (
   Stop Don't page someone. Do page
   someone. )

     * Stop "I can't see the Recent Changes on the
       wiki."
     * "The entire wiki is not viewable"
     * Stop  I cannot sign the CLA
     * I can't change my password in the account system, I
       have admin access and my laptop was just stolen
     * Stop I can't access awstats for
       fedoraproject.org
     * The mirrors list is down.
     * Stop I think someone misspelled some words on
       the webpage
     * The web page has been hacked and I think someone
       notified slashdot.

  First Steps

   After an outage has been verified, acknowledge the outage in nagios:
   https://admin.fedoraproject.org/nagios/ and head in to #fedora-admin
   to figure out who is around and coordinate the next course of action.
   Consult any relevent SOP's for corrective actions.

  Fix it

   Fix it, Fix it, Fix it! Do whatever needs to be done to fix the problem,
   just don't be stupid about it.

  Escalate

   Can't fix it? Don't wait, Escalate! All of the team members have expertise
   with some areas of our environment and weaknesses in other areas. Never be
   afraid to tap another team member. Sometimes it's required, sometimes it's
   not. The last layer of defense is to page someone. At present our team is
   small enough that a full escalation path wouldn't do much good. Consult
   the contact information on each SOP for more information.

  The Aftermath

   With any outage there will be questions. Please try as hard as possible to
   answer the following questions and send them to the
   fedora-infrastructure-list.

    1. What happened?
    2. What was affected?
    3. How long was the outage?
    4. What was the root cause?

   Number 4 is especially important. If a kernel build keeps failing because
   of issues with koji caused by a database failure caused by a full
   filesystem on db1. Don't say koji died because of a db failure. Any time a
   root cause is discovered and not being monitored by nagios, add it if
   possible. Most failures can be prevented or mitigated with proper
   monitoring.

